Joint Routing and Scheduling for CQF 
Yang Liu  
School of Electronic and 
Information Engineering 
Beijing Jiaotong University 
Beijing,China 
19120080@bjtu.edu.cn 
 
Zongrong Cheng 
School of Electronic and 
Information Engineering) 
Beijing Jiaotong University 
Beijing,China 
19111010@bjtu.edu.cn 
 
Jie Ren 
School of Electronic and 
Information Engineering 
Beijing Jiaotong University 
Beijing,China 
21111028@bjtu.edu.cn 
 
Dong Yang 
School of Electronic and 
Information Engineering 
Beijing Jiaotong University 
Beijing,China 
dyang@bjtu.edu. 
Abstract—Cyclic Queuing and Forwarding (CQF, a.k.a IEEE 
802.1Qch) has been proposed to satisfy the demands of predictable 
deterministic latency only related to the number of hops. However, 
IEEE 802.1Qch only introduces the principle and working 
mechanism of CQF. There are still many open problems worth 
exploring to make CQF practical in real dynamic application 
scenarios. To achieve deterministic end-to-end latency by 
efficiently allocating the real flows with limited bandwidth 
resources, this paper proposes a reinforcement learning based 
joint routing and scheduling algorithm. We transform the CQF 
into formulated model and orchestrate path in consideration of 
hardware resources and latency requirements to accommodate 
more scheduled flows. Experimental results show that the 
proposed algorithm can achieve good performance in transmission 
stability and latency certainty than RIP. 
Keywords—time-sensitive networking, CQF, reinforcement 
learning, scheduling algorithm 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In traditional Ethernet, data is sent in best-effort service 
which emphasizes transmission sequence with no guarantee of 
time. Some service categories can have good performance, but 
when the end-to-end latency requirements is precise, the tailing 
problem of the traditional latency curve comes out. 
Consequently, Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN), a series of 
standards developed by the IEEE 802.1 TSN working group, 
was proposed to solve deterministic forwarding service of flows 
at the physical link layer. Moreover, TSN has the ability to 
ensure the limited ultra-low latency and variation (jitter) 
demands for the transmission of industrial control data. [1].   
The most important mechanism is traffic shaper for 
deterministic 
forwarding 
services 
in 
TSN 
whose 
implementation is provided by Time-Aware Scheduler (TAS, 
a.k.a IEEE 802.1Qbv) and Cyclic Queuing and Forwarding 
(CQF, a.k.a IEEE 802.1Qch). TAS requires precise control of 
the Gate-Control Lists (GCL) at each outgoing port of a switch. 
The GCL is used to define when the gate attached to each queue 
opens or closes. But in some scenarios, such as process 
automation, when there are forwarding state transitions in need 
of communication or the measured variable exceeds the defined 
boundary, the transmission time cannot be precisely predicted. 
Consequently, TAS relying on precise GCL control is not 
perfectly suitable for this kind of traffic scenario. One 
compromise for the flexibility is reduced requirements with 
respect to acceptable latency and jitter guarantees [2]. For this 
reason, an additional Traffic Shaper called CQF is being 
developed. 
As the name implies, the principle of CQF is that flows are 
transmitted and queued in a periodic manner during network 
path transmission. The time is divided into numbered time slots 
with the same duration in which data flows are transmitted. All 
switches and terminal devices have a common start time and 
duration. The total latency is only related to the duration and 
hops between sender and receiver regardless of topology. 
Therefore, CQF can perform well when ill-conditioned 
topologies or other topologies that bring huge latencies occur, 
which greatly reduces the requirements for transmission time 
accuracy. The topological problems in the IEEE 802.1Qbv is 
solved [3]. When the mapping between the traffic and queues is 
allocated in TSN, there are eight Cos priorities (PCP, Priority 
Code Point) to implement communication with soft and hard 
real-time requirements according to the type of data flows [4]. 
For example, priorities 7, 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0 can be used to transmit 
Best Effort (BE) flows; Priority 5 is assigned to the CQF shaper 
and priority level 6 to the TAS. Various priorities are conducive 
to the cooperative work between different types of shapers. 
IEEE 802.1Qch only elaborates on the principles of per-
stream filtering 
and policing. 
In 
terms 
of 
specific 
implementation schemes, it remains to be explored, resolved 
and optimized. The intention of this paper is to formulate CQF 
mechanism and propose a joint routing and scheduling 
implementation scheme based on the reinforcement learning 
(RL)scheme to be deployed in the real system. 
Several works have addressed the performance on resource 
allocation and scheduling problems. The joint task assignment 
and resource allocation for DNN Inference is investigated in 
IIoT [5]. For mapping and utilizing resources, how to use RL 
for CPU memory resources in computers is described [6]; RL 
scheme is also introduced for Asynchronous Traffic Shaper 
(ATS) in deterministic networks [7][8]. The model of the leaky 
bucket token scheme is optimized to maximize the interests of 
network operators based on UBS in ATS [9], Reference [10] is 
aiming at the algorithm combination of LRQ, TBE and 
Paternoster in ATS, then simulate and analyze the algorithm in 
joint queuing scheduling mechanism; In contrast to this, the 
original intension of this paper is the hardware-based CQF 
shaper scheme based on the combination of forwarding and 
scheduling in Linux. There are joint scheduling schemes for 
streams of different priorities [11][12].  Reference [11] is 
combining AVB with Time-Trigger (TT) streams to propose a 
GRASP-based meta-heuristic method to search for schedulable 
solutions. Reference [12] is to combine AVB and TT flows 
planning for joint unified scheduling, using the KSP algorithm 
to generate routes, and then GRASP will establish a feasible 
solution to find the optimal scheduling scheme. The federated 
487
2022 The 7th International Conference on Computer and Communication Systems
978-1-6654-5060-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
2022 7th International Conference on Computer and Communication Systems (ICCCS) | 978-1-6654-5060-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICCCS55155.2022.9846349
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on June 27,2023 at 07:22:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
learning based multi-agent approach is implemented in 
Distributed Industrial IoT [13]. the joint routing scheduling 
scheme is introduced for CSQF (Circular Designated Queue 
Forwarding) in large-scale deterministic IP networks. One 
algorithm is based on column generation and dynamic 
programming to model the problem as an extension of multi-
commodity flows, and analyze its NP- Hard model, the other is 
to use reinforcement learning to improve the solution [14]. 
Reference [15] is to map CQF in TSN to hardware resources, 
on a fixed path, optimize the start time of time-sensitive flows 
into the network with DSK (Domain-Specific Knowledge) and 
finally speed up the search process and generates solutions that 
maximize the revenue of operators. In comparison, the novelty 
of this paper is that the end-to-end latency of CQF should be 
optimized in combination with the transmission path of the 
flows, so that the end-to-end latency meets the accuracy 
requirements. 
In this paper, we propose a joint routing and scheduling 
algorithm based on reinforcement learning for CQF. The main 
contributions of the paper can be summarized as follows: First, 
we introduce an orchestration architecture that arrange the 
network resources of devices by applying pre-trained models to 
flexible and effective resource management. Second, we 
formulate a routing and scheduling allocation problem model to 
maximize the number of scheduled flows while meeting the 
latency and bandwidth resource requirements. Third, based on 
the allocation model, we propose a reinforcement learning 
algorithm to make path planning decisions in the industrial 
Internet. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In 
Section II, we introduce the system model. In Section III, joint 
spatial and temporal traffic scheduling optimization allocation 
problem is formulated and transformed, and reinforcement 
learning based algorithm is proposed to solve the transformed 
problem. Section IV presents the experimental results for the 
proposed algorithm and Section V concludes this paper. 
II. SYSTEM MODEL 
The CQF system architecture is composed of a control plane 
and a data plane. The main component of the centralized control 
layer is the Centralized Network Controller (CNC) which is 
responsible for algorithm calculation. The device layer includes 
TSN switches and terminal computers for sending and receiving. 
The TSN switches receive CQF gate information for forwarding 
configuration, and then forward data. The framework 
implemented in the CQF system is shown in Fig. 1. 
Before further elaboration of CQF transmission model, we 
introduce the working mechanism of CQF. CQF has two queues, 
one for reception and the other for transmission. As shown in 
Fig. 2, when the data flow enters the switch, the receiving gate 
of 𝑄1  opens. The arriving data enter 𝑄1  in cycle T. 
Meanwhile, the output sending gate of 𝑄2  opens, Data 
transmitted to the next switch; After some gap following the 
transmission of the last frame in the buffer, the next cycle T 
arrives. the output sending gate of 𝑄1 opens and sends the 
frames received in the previous cycle, the receiving gate of 𝑄2 
open and starts to receive new frames. This cycle goes back and 
forth to achieve transmission in a fixed duration. The  
CNC(Centralized Network Controller)
Flow Data
Flow Data
Network Data
Scheduled 
Data
Scheduled 
Data
Scheduled Data
Scheduled Data
Network Data
host1
host2
TSN Switch1
TSN Switch2
 
Fig. 1. CQF system architecture. 
Q1
Q2
Sending gate
Receiving gate
 
Fig. 2. CQF mechanism in duration T 
of internal data ensures that the latency of each hop of data does 
not exceed 2T. Since the latency of each hop is a fixed value, 
the end-to-end latency is only related to the number of hops of 
the path regardless of topology [3]. 
  As shown in the step 1 in Fig.3, when host1 sends 
messages to host 2, the flow data is submitted to CNC for 
information registration. For each flow, there are source, 
destination, priority, period, maximum frame number, 
maximum 
frame 
length, 
and 
maximum 
end-to-end 
latency. ∀𝑓𝑖∈𝐹, 𝑖∈[1, 𝑛] 
 
max
{
,
,
,
,
,
}
if
src dst priority period length latency
=
 
(1) 
As shown in the step 2, at the same time, the TSN 
switches need to submit the current network topology status 
to the CNC. In the network topology, 𝑢𝑗𝑘 indicates whether 
the link between switch j and k is connected, 1 for being 
connected. 𝐵𝑗𝑘
𝑚𝑎𝑥denotes the maximum bandwidth allowed 
for transmission between switch i and j. 
max
,
[1,
]
0 1
jk
j k
dev
j
k
u
or



=
，
，
 
 
:{
}
jk
status
B
 
max
:{
,
}
jk
jk
topo
u
B
 
(2)  
So far, the required flow and topology information have 
been registered in the CNC. Then, as shown in the step 3. CNC 
sends path and gate control information to the switches for 
forwarding. 
There are multiple periods of flows for transmission. It is 
necessary to ensure that all flows can be completely 
transmitted within the common cycle. GCL needs to switch 
gates regularly. The hyper period of the entire system is the 
least common multiple of all flow periods. 
 
( .
)
system
period
LCM F periods
=
 
(3)  
488
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on June 27,2023 at 07:22:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
User
CQF switches
CNC
Algorithm
CQF switches
Flow data  
Topology  
Path;
Gate control
 
 
Fig. 3. order of CQF system 
During flow transmission, each switch has a unit as 
scheduling time slot which represents the duration gate is 
opened. To ensure that all flows can be perfectly interleaved 
in the time slots, the period of each flow must be divisible by 
slot duration. Naturally, the maximum value of the time slot 
is the greatest common divisor of all scheduled flow periods. 
While flows are correctly scheduled with time slot in CQF, 
the buffer in switches must be able to fully accommodate all 
flows during slots. There is no need to worry about buffer 
length. As a result, the minimum value of time slot is 
required for completely transmitting the largest packet 
among flows.  
         
   (4) 
where 𝑑𝑠𝑦𝑛𝑐 denotes the precise synchronization delay in 
system. 𝑑𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐 denotes the processing delay from being 
received by switch to entering buffer. 𝑑𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝 denotes the 
link propagation delay in transmission. Meanwhile, there is 
another queuing delay required to complete one-hop 
transmission, which is waiting for the gate to be opened in 
the buffer queue. In the minimum constraint for only one 
packet, no packet before is in the queue. Therefore, queuing 
delay is equal to 0. 
Besides, the end-to-end latency meets the maximum latency 
requirement in relation to the time slot size and the number of 
hops in the link. Therefore, the latency constraint is, ∀𝑓𝑖∈
𝐹, 𝑖∈[1, 𝑛]: 
 
max
( )*T
( )
i
i
hop f
latency
f

 
5  
At this time, the total bandwidth of all flows being 
transmitted cannot exceed the maximum bandwidth in each link. 
so the bandwidth constraint is: 
 
max
i
num
l
l
f
F
MTU
pkt
v
B
T






 
(6) 
where 𝛼 denotes the adjustment coefficient ranging from 0 to 
1, the links are composed by 𝑙∈{𝑙1, 𝑙2, … } in the topology, in 
other words, in the case of 𝑢𝑗𝑘= 1 .  𝑣𝑙= 0 𝑜𝑟 1  which 
indicates whether the flow passes through the link. 
The maximum link bandwidth utilization rate occupied in 
the topology can be expressed as follow： 
 
,
[1, ]
max
*
max
i l
l
i
n
l
l
B
v
y
B

=

 
(7)  
The parameter to measure the optimal forwarding path is 
y. We set y as the maximum link bandwidth utilization rate 
occupied in the topology. The smaller the y is, the more 
balanced the bandwidth distribution is, and the better the 
planned routing path is planned. 
To apply the above CQF mathematical model to practice, 
we design a joint routing and scheduling algorithm based on 
reinforcement learning, namely JRSA. This is introduced in 
the next section. 
III. JRSA: JOINT ROUTING AND SCHEDULING ALGORITHM 
FOR CQF 
Solving formula problems through traditional SMT solver is 
time consuming. In order to guarantee the high speed of 
scheduling tasks, we take reinforcement learning as a solution. 
The learning mechanism of RL is that the agent takes actions to 
repeatedly interact with the environment to obtain the greatest 
reward. In the industrial Internet, the agent is acted by CNC, 
and everything else is considered to be the environment. There 
are three key elements in the RL, which are environmental 
states, actions, and rewards, respectively： 
1) State space: The state space denotes as 𝑆 covers the 
current occupied bandwidth information. For each time slot 
t, the agent can obtain the state space of the Industrial 
Internet at time slot t as follows： 
 
( )
( )
( )
1
2
( )
{
,
,
,
}
n
l
l
l
s t
B
t
B
t
B
t
=
 
(8)  
2) Action space: Once the environment state is observed, 
the agent makes a decision based on the strategy π, the 
decision made in the time slot t is： 
 
,
,
( )
{
( ),
( )}
i l
i l
a t
v
t B
t
=
 
(9)  
3) Reward: Once the action 𝑎(𝑡) is made based on the 
observed state, the agent will immediately receive the reward 
𝑟(𝑡). 
 
 
(10)  
where y represents the maximum utilization of links in the 
industrial Internet in the time slot t, which indicates that the 
action space has a direct impact on the transmission of flows. 
However, when the conditions cannot be met, there will be 
constant rewards. 
We adopt Q-learning to realize CQF model among the 
reinforcement learning algorithms. The reward is associated 
with the maximum utilization of links. As a result, during each 
update of Q value, we choose the minimum rather than 
maximum value to find the optimal path. Accordingly, we 
define the action-value function 𝑄(𝑠, 𝑎)  as the expected 
cumulative reward from the initial state. 
 
 
489
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on June 27,2023 at 07:22:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I. JOINT ROUTING AND SCHEDULING ALGORITHM 
Algorithm: JRSA 
input: source, determination and maximum allowable latency of each flow; 
topology: 𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑜: {𝑢𝑗𝑘, 𝐵𝑗𝑘
𝑚𝑎𝑥} 
time slot duration 𝑇 
initialize 𝑄(𝑠(𝑡), 𝑎(𝑡)) arbitrarily; 
output: percentage of successfully scheduled flow; 
for episode 𝑒∈{1,2, … , 𝑀} do 
initialize s(t) 
for time slot 𝑡∈{1,2, … , 𝐾} do 
for flow 𝑖∈{1,2, … , 𝑛} do 
choose a(t) from s(t) from 𝑄(𝑠(𝑡), 𝑎(𝑡)) based on 𝜀-greedy policy; 
update 𝐵𝑙, total time latency and maximum bandwidth utilization y, 
𝑟(𝑡) = 𝑦; 
      if 𝐵𝑙> 𝛼𝐵𝑙
𝑚𝑎𝑥 or 𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦> 𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦𝑖
𝑚𝑎𝑥 
   𝑟(𝑡) = 1; 
   Drop the packet; 
      update 𝑄(𝑠(𝑡), 𝑎(𝑡)); 
      update 𝑠(𝑡) ←𝑠(𝑡+ 1); 
      if 𝑎(𝑡) = 𝑑𝑠𝑡 
the transmission of flow i ends 
end for 
end for 
 
(
1)
( ( ), ( ))
( ( ), ( ))
[ ( )
min
( (
1), ( +1))
( ( ), ( ))]
a t
Q s t a t
Q s t a t
r t
Q s t
a t
Q s t a t


+

+
+
+
−
(11) 
The training process of JRSA is shown in Table 1. First, the 
current topology is initialized by 𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑜: {𝑢𝑗𝑘, 𝐵𝑗𝑘
𝑚𝑎𝑥}, source, 
destination, and time slot duration of the input flows. Packets 
are sent at the beginning. Second, in each episode, the current 
state space is initialized. Third, in each time slot duration, the 
packets in each node are being transmitted. The link bandwidth 
is calculated based on the flow’s action for next hop. At the 
same time, the maximum bandwidth utilization y in the 
topology is updated for the reward to train the algorithm. If the 
bandwidth of the link exceeds the maximum limit or the total 
time is larger than the maximum latency, the packet is dropped 
and the reward is set to 1 for punishment. Then, the bandwidth 
state of link is updated. Next node of flow is determined. While 
the flow arrives at the destination, the scheduling for this flow 
ends. As mentioned above, repeatedly, all flows are scheduled. 
Finally, the algorithm is completely trained. Percentage of 
successfully scheduled flows comes out as the explicit 
evaluating indicator. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS 
In this section, we first evaluate the performance of the 
algorithm through Python software simulation. Then we put the 
JRSA algorithm in the CNC to realize the end-to-end 
scheduling of the real data flows in the actual system. 
A. Simulation Environment 
In topology selection, Ethernet topologies have the 
following common types: star, tree, linear, and ring. In the 
industrial Internet, a ring topology is usually used for reliable 
transmission. In order to better evaluate the effect of the 
algorithm in the simulation, we adopted a hybrid topology with 
15nodes randomly connected as shown in the Fig.4(a). The 
bandwidth of each link in the topology is 1000Mb/s. We set the 
link occupancy coefficient 𝛼 to 0.7. 
 
 
 
             (a) In simulation           (b) In real system       
Fig. 4. Topology. 
  
Fig. 5. Scheduled traffic 
All flows are randomly generated, and the source and 
destination of each flow are randomly selected from all end 
devices. The period of the flow is randomly selected as {1000μs, 
2000μs}. The time slot duration 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑑𝑢𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 is set to 500μs, 
and the size of each packet is generated with 1KB. 
In the reinforcement learning environment configuration, 
we set a learning rate of 0.01 and an ε-greedy coefficient of 0.9 
to train the network parameters. The largest episode is set to 
1000 times. 
The simulation results are shown in the Fig.5. We 
respectively generated 6000~11000 data packets and counted 
the percentage of the number of successfully scheduled flows. 
For comparison, we choose RIP protocol as the reference. The 
gate control for transmitting flows is set based on RIP. We can 
see that when the total demand is small (for example, less than 
7000), both RIP-based and JRSA nearly give the optimal 
solution to schedule all flows. As the number of flows increases, 
both solutions have a sharp decrease because the available 
resources 
provide 
inflexible 
scheduling 
scheme 
that 
accommodates more traffic by splitting the flow demands over 
multiple paths. However, JSRA allows to provide an result 
improvement in gap with even 40% (20% in 8000 flows and 40% 
in 9000 flows). Though the large traffic increases the difficulty 
of planning and reduces the number of successfully scheduled 
flows, JSRA still manages to choose exploratory actions to 
transmit in more paths during scheduling. Meanwhile, 
bandwidth resource allocation is more balanced. 
B. Real System Implementation 
In the system implementation, due to the limited number of 
switches and hosts, we choose a simple ring topology for actual 
implementation as shown in Fig.4(b). We use packet-sending 
software to send packets. Once the period, priority, start time 
and number of packets are chosen, packets are generated. In 
order to better observe the statistical results, we generate two  
490
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on June 27,2023 at 07:22:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
(a) 
                           (b) 
Fig.6. Latency distribution without CQF. (a)flow1 with 𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑜𝑑= 1000𝜇𝑠; 
(b) flow2 with 𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑜𝑑= 2000𝜇𝑠; 
 
(a)                            (b) 
Fig.7. Latency distribution with CQF by JSRA. (a)flow1 with 𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑜𝑑=
1000𝜇𝑠; 
(b) flow2 with 𝑝𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑜𝑑= 2000𝜇𝑠; 
flows of 8000 packets from host 1 to host 2, whose periods are 
1000μs and 2000μs.  
In the experiment, we put the trained algorithm into the 
CNC in Figure 1. The Network Interface Card (NIC) of each 
device is INTEL I210. The routing information is issued from 
RYU by the OpenFlow protocol. The scheduling information is 
configured and implemented by the Traffic Control tool and 
TAPRIO gate control. 
The real system implementation results are shown in the 
Fig.6 and Fig.7. First, according to the topology in Fig.4(b), 
when messages are sent from host 1 to host 2, the measurement 
of time is between the sending moment of the NIC in host 1 and 
the receiving moment of the NIC in host 2. the end-to-end 
latency is 2 hops plus link latency, as 500μs*2, which exactly 
equal to the max latency 1000μs in the Fig.7. Second, the 
latency determination is guaranteed with JSRA. As shown in 
the Fig.6, when the CQF scheduling is not performed, the end-
to-end latency of flow1 and flow2 obey a normal distribution in 
the range of 1000~1500μs.As shown in the Fig.7, the end-to-
end latency of the data packet can have a good truncation effect 
at the position of 1000 μs with JSRA. Almost all flows can be 
transmitted before this time. In addition. The range length of 
latency is 500 μs without CQF, which is reduced to 200 μs after 
CQF scheduling by JSRA. Therefore, jitter has also a significant 
improvement.    
V. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we introduced a CQF system architecture to 
realize the deterministic transmission of flows in the industrial 
Internet. It has centralized control layer for algorithm 
calculation and device layer for transmission. Then we 
proposed a routing planning decision algorithm called JRSA for 
CQF. Experimental results show that the JSRA improves the 
traffic 
accommodated 
by 
the 
topology. 
After 
the 
implementation of CQF system architecture, the flow can be 
accurately scheduled to achieve the expected deterministic end-
to-end latency in the real environment. In the future, the 
optimization of CQF algorithm would be an interesting 
direction. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work is supported by the National Key Research and 
Development 
Program 
of 
China 
under 
Grants 
2018YFB1702000. 
REFERENCES 
[1] 
Norman Finn Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. Time-sensitive and 
Deterministic Networking Whitepaper July 11, 2017. 
[2] 
Dr. René Hummen, Stephan Kehrer, Dr. Oliver Kleineberg, TSN – Time 
Sensitive Networking White Paper,2017. 
[3] 
IEEE 
802.1Qch 
Standard: 
Cyclic 
Queuing 
and 
Forwarding   
https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/802-1qch/. 
[4] 
Industrial Internet Consortium. Time Sensitive Networks for Flexible 
Manufacturing Testbed Characterization and Mapping of Converged 
Traffic Types[J]. 2019. 
[5] 
W. Zhang, D. Yang, P. Haixia, et al. Deep Reinforcement Learning 
Based Resource Management for DNN Inference in Industrial IoT. IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 70, no. 8, pp. 7605-7618, 
Aug. 2021. 
[6] 
Hongzi Mao, Mohammad Alizadeh, Ishai Menache, Srikanth Kandula 
Resource Management with Deep Reinforcement Learning, in HotNets 
'16: Proceedings of the 15th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks, 
pp.50-56, November 2016.  
[7] 
J. Prados-Garzon, T. Taleb and M. Bagaa, "LEARNET: Reinforcement 
Learning Based Flow Scheduling for Asynchronous Deterministic 
Networks," ICC 2020 - 2020 IEEE International Conference on 
Communications (ICC), Dublin, Ireland, pp. 1-6, 2020. 
[8] 
J. Specht and S. Samii, “Synthesis of queue and priority assignment for 
asynchronous traffic shaping in switched ethernet,” in 2017 IEEE 
RealTime Systems Symposium (RTSS), pp. 178–187, Dec 2017. 
[9] 
J. Specht and S. Samii, “Urgency-based scheduler for time-sensitive 
switched ethernet networks,” in 2016 28th Euromicro Conference on 
RealTime Systems (ECRTS), pp. 75–85, July 2016.  
[10] Zifan Zhou, Michael Stübert Berger, Sarah Renée Ruepp, Ying Yan, 
"Insight into the IEEE802.1 Qcr Asynchronous Traffic Shaping in Time 
Sensitive Network",in Advances in Science, Technology and 
Engineering Systems Journal Vol. 4, No. 1, pp.292-301 ,2019. 
[11] V. Gavriluţ and P. Pop, "Scheduling in time sensitive networks (TSN) for 
mixed-criticality industrial applications," 2018 14th IEEE International 
Workshop on Factory Communication Systems (WFCS), Imperia, pp. 1-
4,2018. 
[12] V. Gavriluţ, L. Zhao, M. L. Raagaard and P. Pop, "AVB-Aware Routing 
and Scheduling of Time-Triggered Traffic for TSN," in IEEE Access, vol. 
6, pp. 75229-75243, 2018. 
[13] W. Zhang, D. Yang, W. Wu, et al. Optimizing Federated Learning in 
Distributed Industrial IoT: A Multi-Agent Approach. IEEE Journal on 
Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 39, no. 12, pp. 3688-3703, Dec. 
2021. 
[14] Jonatan Krolikowski, Sébastien Martin, Paolo Medagliani, Jérémie, et al. 
Paris Research Center, Joint Routing and Scheduling for Large-Scale 
Deterministic IP Networks, April 2020. 
[15] J. Yan, W. Quan, X. Jiang and Z. Sun, "Injection Time Planning: Making 
CQF Practical in Time-Sensitive Networking," IEEE INFOCOM 2020 - 
IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, Toronto, ON, Canada, 
pp. 616-62, 2020. 
 
 
491
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on June 27,2023 at 07:22:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
