Joint Time-Frequency Resource Scheduling over
CQF-based TSN-5G System
Zongrong Cheng
School of Electronic and
Information Engineering
Beijing Jiaotong University
Beijing, China
zrcheng@bjtu.edu.cn
Dong Yang*
School of Electronic and
Information Engineering
Beijing Jiaotong University
Beijing, China
dyang@bjtu.edu.cn
Ruibin Guo
School of Electronic and
Information Engineering
Beijing Jiaotong University
Beijing, China
20111022@bjtu.edu.cn
Weiting Zhang
School of Electronic and
Information Engineering
Beijing Jiaotong University
Beijing, China
wtzhang@bjtu.edu.cn
Abstract—Deterministic communication across the integrated
time-sensitive networking (TSN) and 5G system (5GS) relies
on the queue model and network resource scheduling. In this
paper, we investigate the joint time-frequency resource scheduling
problem in CQF-based TSN-5GS aiming to improve the number
of schedulable flows and system load balance. To support the
integration of CQF-based TSN and 5GS, we propose a time-
aware packet forwarding strategy for 5GS. By managing the flow
transmission time intervals and frequency resources, 5GS can
seamlessly communicate with nearby CQF enabled TSN bridges.
Given the complexity of network resource scheduling across the
TSN-5GS, it is difficult for traditional algorithms to obtain the
optimal scheduling results. Hence, we design a DRL-assisted time-
frequency resource scheduling algorithm, namely DTF, to jointly
allocate the time interval and frequency resources in the unit
of flow. DTF embeds with a two-dimensional matrix of link
capacity utilization to efficiently learn the relationship between
different time intervals and capacity utilization. Experimental
results show that our proposed DTF algorithm can increase the
schedulable flow number by 54.2% and 3.5x than DeepCQF
and Naive, respectively. DTF can also achieve a good trade-off
between runtime and schedulability.
Index Terms—CQF-based TSN-5GS, deep reinforcement learn-
ing, resource scheduling.
I. INTRODUCTION
Recent years have witnessed a significant development of
deterministic communication technologies. As an emerging
paradigm for the deterministic communication, time-sensitive
networking (TSN) over Ethernet is proposed by IEEE 802.1
TSN task group aiming to provide the time-sensitive applica-
tions with bounded latency, jitter, and high reliability. Several
TSN queue models are defined by TSN standards, such as
time-aware shaper (TAS), asynchronous traffic shaper (ATS),
and cyclic queuing and forwarding (CQF) model for traffic
shaping [1], [2]. Among these queue models, the CQF model
has been widely adopted due to its ease of use features.
Although the CQF-based TSN can satisfy the deterministic
communication demands of time-sensitive applications, it is
still restricted into the wired network domain. With the rising
of 5th generation (5G) wireless communication technology,
more emerging 5G use cases, such as autonomous driving,
Dong Yang* is the corresponding author.
remote surgery, virtual reality, etc., need a deterministic end-
to-end communication guarantee [3]. Unfortunately, the 5G
system (5GS) cannot support the determinism due to the
inherent best-effort flow transmission mechanism. Hence, it is
necessary to integrate CQF-based TSN with 5GS to extend the
deterministic communication capability from wired network
into wireless domain.
The 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) defines the
architecture of integrated TSN-5GS, where 5GS is configured
as a logical TSN bridge to seamlessly communicate with
nearby TSN bridges [4]. Because the deterministic commu-
nication relies on network resource scheduling, many related
works research the resource scheduling problem under the
TSN-5GS architecture. Based on TAS mechanism, Ginth¨or et
al. [5] proposed a window-based resource allocation method to
improve the schedulability in TSN-5GS. Satka et al. designed
a QoS-aware mapping algorithm to efficiently exchange flows
between TSN and 5G network domain. Prados-Garzon et al.
[6] presented a management framework to enable the TSN
network slicing and inter-working with 5G backhaul. However,
none of the related works considered resource scheduling in
CQF-based TSN-5GS as the granularity of scheduling in CQF
is more fine-grained and complex. Inspired by this, we inves-
tigate the joint time-frequency resource scheduling problem
in CQF-based TSN-5GS aiming to improve the number of
scheduled flows and system load balance.
Different from other queue models for TSN-5GS, CQF
schedules the network resources at the granularity of each
time interval within a hyper cycle. To support the inte-
gration of CQF-based TSN and 5GS, we propose a time-
aware packet forwarding strategy for 5GS. By managing the
time-triggered (TT) flow transmission time intervals on TSN
translator and allocating enough frequency resources, the 5GS
can imitate the CQF operation and seamlessly connect with
nearby CQF enabled TSN bridges. Due to the complexity of
resource scheduling across CQF-based TSN-5GS, traditional
algorithms, such as dynamic programming and heuristics, are
too time cost to search the optimal scheduling results. To
improve the scheduling efficiency, we design a DRL-assisted
time-frequency resource scheduling algorithm, namely DTF, to
jointly allocate time interval and frequency resources for each
60
2023 the 15th International Conference on Communication Software and Networks
979-8-3503-2936-0/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE
2023 15th International Conference on Communication Software and Networks (ICCSN) | 979-8-3503-2936-0/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICCSN57992.2023.10297405
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TT flow. Different from the traditional DRL resource schedul-
ing algorithms that separately perceive time intervals and
link capacity utilization, DTF embeds with a two-dimensional
matrix of link capacity utilization to efficiently learn the
relationship between time intervals and capacity utilization.
Experimental results show that our proposed DTF algorithm
in CQF-based TSN-5GS can increase the number of schedu-
lable TT flows by 54.2% and 3.5x than DeepCQF and Naive,
respectively. DTF can also achieve the best load balance with
lower computational time cost. The contributions of this paper
are listed as follows:
• We propose a time-aware packet forwarding strategy for
5GS to support the integration with CQF-based TSN. By
managing the flow transmission time intervals on TSN
translator and frequency resources, 5GS can seamlessly
communicate with nearby CQF enabled TSN bridges.
• We design a DRL-assisted time-frequency resource
scheduling algorithm, namely DTF, applied into CQF-
based TSN-5GS for the first time. DTF embeds with
a two-dimensional matrix of link capacity utilization to
efficiently learn the relationship between different time
intervals and capacity utilization.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II introduces the architecture of TSN-5GS and our proposed
strategy for 5GS integrated with CQF-based TSN. Section
III formulates the joint time-frequency scheduling problem in
TSN-5GS. Section IV designs the DTF algorithm for network
resource scheduling. Section V evaluates the scheduling per-
formance. Finally, our work is summarized in Section VI.
II. CQF-BASED SYSTEM MODEL FOR TSN-5GS
This section describes the architecture of TSN-5GS. To
support integration with CQF-based TSN standard, we propose
a time-aware packet forwarding strategy for 5GS.
A. TSN-5GS Architecture
The centralized architecture of TSN-5GS is defined by the
3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) shown in Fig. 1.
In data plane, the 5GS is regarded as a logical TSN bridge
embedded into wired TSN system. 5GS is able to support
most of the relevant TSN protocols, such as generic precision
time protocol (gPTP), network configuration protocol (NET-
CONF), and VLAN-tagged stream filtering protocols. This
is achieved by introducing the device-side and network-side
TSN translators (i.e., DS-TT and NW-TT, respectively) in
5GS. The TSN translators can accurately compute the time
difference between TSN and 5GS domains, and utilize the
hold and forward buffering mechanism [7] to reduce the flow
transmission latency and jitter (i.e., latency variance) from end
to end. The real-time transmission guarantee across the entire
system owes to network resource scheduling for each flow
planned by the controller in control plane. Centralized network
configuration (CNC) is the main component of controller. The
end-to-end network resource scheduling task is computed by
CNC equipped with efficient resource scheduling algorithms.
All the TSN entities, including TSN hosts and bridges in the
TSN host 
(H1)
TSN bridge 
(S2)
TSN bridge 
(S1)
TSN host 
(H3)
TSN-5GS Control Plane
5GS logical bridge
gNB
UE
DS-TT
 UPF NW
-TT
CNC
TSN AF
Data Plane
Packets
Cyclic queues
Cyclic queues
Q1
Q2
Q1
Q2
Signaling
Interacting
Q2
Q1
C = Close, O = Open
Q1
Q2
T0
T1
C
O
O
C
Rx-
gate Q1
Q2
T0
T1
C
O
O
C
Rx-
gate
Q1
Q2
T0
T1
O
C
C
O
Tx-
gate Q1
Q2
T0
T1
O
C
C
O
Tx-
gate
C = Close, O = Open
Rx-gate
Tx-gate
TSN host 
(H2)
Signaling
Signaling
Signaling
Signaling
Fig. 1. Architecture of TSN-5GS supporting CQF mechanism.
management domain, provide exposure interfaces toward CNC
to receive the signaling for configuration. The TSN application
function (AF) communicates with CNC and delivers the port
and bridge information to TSN translators in 5GS. Based on
the architecture, we focus on the network resource scheduling
problem with CQF-based TSN-5GS in this paper.
B. CQF-based System Model
CQF mechanism is an ease of use queue model in TSN to
provide the deterministic transmission guarantee for TT flows
across the network. We define the set of TT flows as F. Each
TT flow fi ∈F is featured by its flow period pi, source
host srci, destination host dsti, flow path pthi, packet size
si, packet number ni, requirements of end-to-end latency Li,
and jitter Ji. Hence, the flow tuple is
fi = {pi, srci, dsti, pthi, si, ni, Li, Ji}.
(1)
To shape the TT flows, CQF maintains two cyclic queues
Q1 and Q2 periodically performing the queuing operations in
each hyper cycle. As depicted by Fig. 1, we assume two time
intervals T0 and T1 within a hyper cycle. During the even
time interval T0, the Q1 opens the Tx-gate to send flows, and
Q2 opens the Rx-gate to receive the flows. During the odd
time interval T1, the queues operate conversely. IEEE 802.1
Qch standard [2] requires that all the sending flows from the
upstream node in a time interval must be received by the
downstream node within the same time interval. The received
flows will continue to be forwarded in the next time interval.
As such, the transmission delay between any two adjacent
nodes can be constrained by one time interval. However, due to
the different working mechanism between 5GS and wired TSN
system, the CQF mechanism in TSN cannot be directly applied
into TSN-5GS. Hence, we investigate the new approach to
support the CQF mechanism from end to end in TSN-5GS.
Regarding the 5GS as a logical TSN bridge, we propose
a time-aware packet forwarding strategy for 5GS to imitate
the CQF operation in the time dimension to connect with the
adjacent TSN bridges. Specifically, to ensure all the sending
flows from TSN bridge being received by 5GS within one time
interval Tξ, enough frequency resources (i.e., sub-carriers of
61
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
S1→UE
UE→gNB
gNB→S2
Delay by 
NW-TT
T0
T1
T2
i
t
t
t
t
I0
I1
T3
…
…
…
Time Interval
1
s
T
Fig. 2. An example of using time-aware packet forwarding strategy for 5GS.
orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) system)
should be allocated for transmitting the flows during Tξ.
Based on the hold and forward buffering mechanism of TSN
translators, the received flows on 5GS device are stored into
the buffer of TSN translator and wait to be sent until the next
time interval. Fig. 2 describes an example of utilizing our
proposed strategy. A packet of flow is sent from TSN bridge
S1 to UE during time interval T1. After processing on UE, the
packet is transmitted at timestamp I0. Carried by a set of sub-
carriers, the packet is received by 5G base station (gNB) at
timestamp I1 in the same time interval T1. Then, the received
packet waits on NW-TT, and continues to be forwarded at
the next time interval T2. In the process, the delays between
DS-TT/NW-TT and UE/gNB are neglected because the link
distance between them is short and bandwidth is large enough
in our system. Based on our proposed strategy, TSN-5GS
supports the CQF mechanism from end to end. Thus, the end-
to-end latency D and jitter ∆only depend on the number of
hops and time interval length, which is described by
 (N −1) × T ≤D ≤(N + 1) × T ,
∆≤2 × T ,
(2)
where N denotes the number of hops that the flow goes
through, and T is the length of time interval.
III. PROBLEM STATEMENT AND FORMULATION
This section describes the joint time-frequency resource
scheduling problem and then makes the problem formulation.
A. Joint Time and Frequency Resource Scheduling Problem
Based on the CQF mechanism, the flow transmission
through TSN-5GS faces both the time and frequency schedul-
ing problems. First, the time interval scheduling problem is
described by Fig. 3. In time interval T0, the TSN host H1
sends two packets, denoted as pkt1.1 and pkt1.2, respectively
to TSN bridge S1. And TSN host H2 sends one packet pkt2.1
to S1. According to the network topology in Fig. 1, S1 will
forward the packets toward 5GS in the next time interval
T1. We assume that each time interval can accommodate two
packets at most. As such, the packet pkt2.1 will be dropped
by the S1 because it exceeds the time interval capacity of T1.
In contrast, if we postpone the sending time of pkt2.1 to time
H1→S1
H2→S1
S1→5GS
T0
T1
T2
t
t
t
T3
…
…
…
Delay
Drop
Success
1.1
1.2
2.1
2.1
1.1
1.2
2.1
2.1
Fig. 3. Time interval scheduling for each flow.
S1→UE
UE→gNB
gNB→S2
T0
T1
T2
i
t
t
t
t
I0
I1
T3
…
…
…
I’0
I’1
Drop
1.1
1.2
1.1
1.2
1.1
1.2
Too many 
reserved 
frequency 
resources 
1
s
T
Delay by 
NW-TT
1.1
1.1
Fig. 4. 5GS bandwidth allocation for each flow.
interval T1 on the host H2, the pkt2.1 will be successfully
forwarded during time interval T2 by S1. Hence, the time
interval scheduling from the TSN host for each flow is very
important. Second, Fig. 4 describes the frequency resource
scheduling problem. When forwarding packets pkt1.1 and
pkt1.2 from UE to gNB, the sub-carriers in 5GS should be
allocated to the packets. However, too many sub-carriers are
reserved for carrying pkt1.1, and pkt1.2 cannot acquire enough
5GS bandwidth to be transmitted within the time interval T1.
This leads to packet loss. Therefore, both the time interval
and frequency resources need to be scheduled to improve the
network performance.
B. Problem Formulation
We formulate the joint time-frequency resource scheduling
problem mentioned in Section III-A as the multiple objective
optimization problem. The objective goals include maximizing
the number of schedulable flows and system load balance. To
measure the scheduling performance on the objective goals, we
define functions ϕ(·) and C (·) that indicate the successfully
scheduled flows and load balance, respectively. Hence, the
objective goals can be formulated as
Maximize
α
|F|
X
i=1
ϕi(ξ, B) −βC (fi, ζ),
(3)
where |F| is the number of flows, and α, β ∈[0, 1]. If the flow
fi can be successfully scheduled by allocating the time interval
Tξ and 5GS bandwidth B, then ϕi(ξ, B) = 1, otherwise zero.
62
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
The function C (fi, ζ) computes the standard deviation of time
interval utilization, and it has
C (fi, ζ) =
v
u
u
t1
ζ
ζ−1
X
ξ=0
(ρξ −¯ρ),
(4)
where ζ is the number of time intervals in one hyper cycle. ρξ
denotes resource utilization of time interval Tξ, and ¯ρ is the
average time interval utilization. In addition, the optimization
problem is subjected to several constraints. To ensure that the
TSN-5GS periodically performs CQF operations, the hyper
cycle Hc is defined as the least common multiple of all the
flow periods. Let LCM(·) be the function that computes the
least common multiple. Hence,
Hc = LCM({p1, p2, p3, . . . , p|F|}).
(5)
The granularity for resource scheduling with CQF mecha-
nism is each time interval. It means that all the flow periods
should be divisible by the predefined time interval. Thus, the
maximal length of time interval T should be the greatest
common divisor of all the flow periods. Let GCD(·) be the
function of greatest common divisor. Hence, it has
T ≤GCD({p1, p2, p3, . . . , p|F|}).
(6)
To guarantee the high-reliable flow transmission across the
network, the total size of packets sending at each time interval
should be no larger than the maximal time interval capacity
Tc. Let the function ψξ(·) denote whether the time interval Tξ
is allocated for the packet. It means ψξ(·) = 1 if the packet
is mapped into Tξ, otherwise zero. Therefore, this capacity
constraint can be formulated as
|F|
X
i=1
ni
X
m=1
si × ψξ(pktm
i ) ≤Tc,
(7)
where the m-th packet of flow fi is denoted as pktm
i . Specifi-
cally, the time interval capacity Tc depends on link bandwidth.
In wired TSN network side, the Tc is computed by
Tc = η × W × T ,
(8)
where η ∈(0, 1] is the efficiency of time interval utilization,
and W denotes the link bandwidth. In 5GS side, the Tc is
related to 5GS bandwidth B, time interval length, and signal
to interference plus noise ratio γ. Hence, it has
Tc = η × B × log2(1 + γ) × T ,
(9)
where γ relies on the power of transmitter ϑ, channel gain gℓℓ
between the UE and gNB, and interference from other links.
As a result, the γ is described by
γ =
ϑ × gℓℓ
1 + P
ℓ′∈L ϑ′ × gℓ′ℓ
,
(10)
where ℓ′ is the link that interferes ℓ, and gℓ′ℓis the gain of
interference from ℓ′ to ℓ. The transmission power on link
ℓ′ is denoted by ϑ′. As gNB schedules the flows in each
transmission time interval (TTI), the transmission time for
each packet between UE and gNB should be no later than
a TTI length Γ, that is I1 −I0 ≤Γ. Moreover, based on our
proposed time-aware packet forwarding strategy in 5GS, any
packets sent from UE/gNB at time interval Tξ must be received
by gNB/UE within the same time interval. Let T s
ξ be the start
timestamp of Tξ shown in Fig. 2. Hence, I1 −T s
ξ ≤T . And
the received packets at time interval Tξ cannot be forwarded
until the next time interval Tξ+1 arrives, that is
T ≤I1 −T s
ξ + δ ≤2 × T ,
(11)
where δ is the time delay on TSN translators. For each TT
flow, the sending time fi.˜o from the host should be no later
than its flow period. This constraint can effectively avoid the
flows in different periods preempting the limited resources at
the same port. Thus it has 0 ≤fi.˜o ≤pi.
To satisfy with the deterministic requirements of end-to-
end latency R(i)
d
and jitter R(i)
j , the transmission of each flow
should be constrained by Di ≤R(i)
d , ∆i ≤R(i)
j .
IV. DTF: DRL-ASSISTED TIME-FREQUENCY RESOURCE
SCHEDULING ALGORITHM
To solve the joint time-frequency resource scheduling prob-
lem, we transform the formulated problem into a Markov
Decision Process (MDP). The core elements of MDP include
state space, action space, and reward. The state space is
composed by the flow features of
t and time-frequency resource
utilization ou
t at each step t. Therefore, the state ot = of
t ∪ou
t .
Specifically, the flow features in of
t are the same with Eq. (1),
of
t = {pt, srct, dstt, ptht, st, nt, Lt, Jt}.
(12)
The ou
t reflects the utilization of time interval and frequency
resources on each link. Considering the link capacity within
each time interval can measure the time-frequency resource
utilization, we define uℓi
Tξ as the utilization of capacity on link
ℓi during time interval Tξ. Thus,
ou
t = {uℓ1
T0, uℓ2
T0, uℓ3
T0, . . . , uℓL
T0,
uℓ1
T1, uℓ2
T1, uℓ3
T1, . . . , uℓL
T1,
...
...
...
uℓ1
Tµ, uℓ2
Tµ, uℓ3
Tµ, . . . , uℓL
Tµ}.
(13)
The action space comprises a set of time intervals in one
hyper cycle and the 5GS bandwidth waiting to be allocated
for each TT flow. At each step t, the action at is to allocate
one time interval Tt and 5GS bandwidth for flow ft. Instead
of directly allocating a large number of 5GS sub-carriers, we
reduce the action space of 5GS bandwidth allocation. We use
Bt ∈{0, 1} to denote whether the bandwidth is allocated for
ft, i.e., Bt = 1 if ft can acquire the 5GS bandwidth, otherwise
zero. Once Bt = 1 holds, we allocate the 5GS bandwidth with
lower limit that supports the flow transmission in the valid
duration. Hence, the at is described by at = {Tt, Bt}.
The immediate reward rt+1 at each step t is related to the
scheduled flow number and load balance. Let ra
t+1 and rb
t+1
be the shaping reward of scheduled flows and load balance,
respectively. Thus, the total reward is rt+1 = σa × ra
t+1 +
63
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
σb × rb
t+1, where σa, σb ∈[−1, 0]. In specific, ra
t+1 relies on
the flow number, and rb
t+1 is the difference of load balance
between two consecutive steps. Hence,



ra
t+1 =
Θt+1 −|F|
 −λaΘt −|F|
,
rb
t+1 =
max(ou
t+1) −Ξ
 −λbmax(ou
t ) −Ξ
,
ra
t+1 ≤0, rb
t+1 ≥0,
(14)
where λa, λb ∈[0, 1]. The scheduled flow number at step t is
denoted as Θt. The max(ou
t ) represents the maximal usage of
link capacity, and Ξ is the ideal occupancy of link capacity.
Moreover, if all the flows can be successfully scheduled, an
additional large reward can be obtained.
Based on the transformed MDP, we design a DRL-assisted
time-frequency resource scheduling algorithm, namely DTF,
to jointly schedule the time interval and frequency resources
in TSN-5GS. In particular, a two-dimensional matrix of link
capacity utilization according to Eq. (13) is embedded into
DTF as the observation ot. Each row of the matrix denotes
a time interval, and each column indicates a link. The uℓi
Tξ
is the intersection point of each row and column. This ma-
trix can effectively assist the agent to learn the relationship
between different time intervals and capacity utilization. To
extract the key features from the two-dimensional capacity
utilization matrix, the convolutional neural network (CNN)
can be introduced for training. The pseudo code of DTF is
listed in Alg. 1 In line 1-8, the agent observes the current
capacity utilization matrix ot, and makes a time-frequency
resource allocation decision at based on the mapping policy
π : O →A. As we use the value-based DRL framework, the
action with maximal Q-value will be chosen. The Q-value,
which is computed by the action-value function Qπ(o, a), can
reflect the long-term revenue, where
Qπ(o, a) = E

rt+1 + γQπ(ot+1, at+1)
ot = o, at = a, π

.
(15)
After taking the action, the immediate reward and next
state can be obtained, and they are stored into replay buffer.
In line 9-18, the agent samples a batch of trajectories from
replay buffer and trains the neural networks. DTF maintains
two CNNs (i.e., evaluation and target CNNs) with the same
structure. The evaluation CNN is trained by updating pa-
rameter ω to minimize the loss, where the loss function is
lo =
1
Es
b
PEs
b
j=1(yj −Q(oj, aj; ω))2. In specific,
yj =



rj,
if done,
rj + γQ′(o′
j, arg max
a′
j∈A
Q(o′
j, a′
j; ω); ω−), otherwise,
(16)
and the parameter ω−of target CNN can be replaced by ω of
the evaluation CNN every κ steps.
V. SIMULATION AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
This section describes the simulation settings of CQF-based
TSN-5GS and evaluates the scheduling performance of our
proposed algorithm.
Algorithm 1: DTF algorithm for joint time-frequency
resource scheduling.
Input: Empty replay buffer Eb, Initial network
parameters ω and ω−, Replay buffer size Cr,
Training batch size Es
b , Action space A.
Output: Optimal policy π∗.
1 for episode e ∈{1, 2, . . . , ep} do
2
Initialize the state o;
3
for step t ∈{1, 2, . . . , st} do
4
Allocate time-frequency resources for flow ft
based on Q(ot, at; ω) values;
5
Receive an immediate reward rt+1;
6
Transit to the next state ot+1;
7
Store tuple (ot, at, rt+1, ot+1, done) into Eb;
8
Replace the oldest tuple if |Eb| > Cr;
9
Sample a minibatch of Es
b tuples
(o, a, r, o′, done) from Eb;
10
Define amax(o′; ω) = arg max
a′∈A
Q(o′, a′; ω);
11
Determine yj =
 r,
if done,
r + γQ′(o′, amax(o′; ω); ω−),
otherwise;
12
Perform a gradient decent step with loss
L = E[(yj −Q(o, a; ω))2];
13
Reset ω−= ω every κ steps;
14
if done then
15
break;
16
end
17
end
18 end
A. Settings for TSN-5GS and DTF algorithm
Settings for CQF-based TSN-5GS: The benchmark sim-
ulation topology, which has 3 TSN hosts, 2 TSN bridges,
and one 5GS using frequency-division duplex (FDD) mode,
is shown in Fig. 1. The link bandwidth of wired TSN is set
to 1000Mbps. The frequency band of 5GS is 3.7∼3.8GHz,
and 5GS bandwidth is 40MHz. The transmitting power of
gNB and UE are 40dBm and 20dBm, respectively. In terms
of the indoor hotspot LOS scenario [8], the channel gain is
PL(dB) = 32.4+17.3 log10(l5G)+20 log10(fc), where we set
l5G = 100m denoting the distance between UE and gNB, and
fc is center frequency. The Gaussian noise power is -104dBm.
1000 TT flows with periods {4ms, 8ms, 16ms} are scheduled
in TSN-5GS. The packet size is in the range of 50B∼1KB
[9]. The time interval is set to 4ms, and TTI in 5GS is 1ms.
Settings for DTF algorithm: We use two convolution
layers, followed by one fully-connected layer in CNNs. Based
on our experience, the kernel size of each layer is set to
3 × 3, and the stride is 1. The sizes of sample batch and
replay buffer is set to 32 and 1e4, respectively. We adopt the
Adam optimizer with 1 × 10−4 learning rate. The discounting
factor γ is set to 0.9 to acquire the long-term reward. For the
shaping reward, we set the parameters σa = −1, σb = −0.1
64
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
Episodes
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Reward
1000 Flows | Time Slot=4ms | Periods=[4ms,8ms,16ms]
DTF
DeepCQF
Naive
(a)
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
Episodes
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Load Balance
1000 Flows | Time Slot=4ms | Periods=[4ms,8ms,16ms]
DTF
DeepCQF
Naive
(b)
Fig. 5. Training process. (a) Training on the total reward; and (b) Training
for system load balance.
1000 Flows | Time Slot=4ms | Periods=[4ms,8ms,16ms]
200
400
600
800
1000
Number of Flows
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Time Cost (s)
DTF
DeepCQF
Naive
(a)
1000 Flows | periods=[4ms,8ms,16ms]
DTF
Naive
DeepCQF
Scheduling Approaches
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Scheduled Number
Interval=1ms 
Interval=2ms 
Interval=4ms
(b)
Fig. 6. scheduling results. (a) Comparison of time cost; and (b) Comparison
of schedulable flow number.
to emphasize the importance of schedulable flow number. And
the other parameters λa and λb are both set to 1.
B. Performance Evaluation
We evaluate the scheduling performance of our DTF algo-
rithm on Python implementations. The experimental results are
described as follows.
Convergence comparison: The training process of different
scheduling algorithms is depicted by Fig. 5. We compare our
DTF algorithm with other benchmarks, which are DeepCQF
[10] and Naive [11], respectively in CQF-based TSN-5GS.
The DeepCQF schedules time interval resources by using two
fully-connected layers, and each layer has 1000 neurons. The
naive randomly allocates time and frequency resources for
each TT flow. After 10,000 episodes, Fig. 5(a) shows that DTF
improves 54.2% and 3.5x schedulable flow number than Deep-
CQF and Naive, respectively. This is because DTF can jointly
consider time interval and frequency resources allocation for
each flow, while DeepCQF only schedules time intervals and
ignores the frequency resources that leads to the inadequate
resource utilization. Moreover, the two-dimensional capacity
utilization matrix embedded in DTF can effectively assist the
agent to learn the relationship between time intervals and link
capacity utilization. Fig. 5(b) shows the DTF also achieves the
best load balance.
Scheduling Performance: As shown in Fig. 6(a), the
computational time cost for DTF and Naive are almost the
same as the number of TT flows increases. DeepCQF spends
more time to compute the scheduling results because of
the iterative searching process with exchanging mode. By
changing the time interval length in Fig. 6(b), the DTF can
always schedule the most number of flows. In addition, the
schedulable flow number increases as the time interval length
gets larger because more capacity can be used to accommodate
TT flows in each time interval.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have investigated the joint time-frequency
resource scheduling problem in CQF-based TSN-5GS. We
have proposed a time-aware packet forwarding strategy for
5GS to support CQF scheduling from end to end. Our strategy
manages the network resources in finer granularity compared
with the existing methods focusing on other queue models.
To efficiently improve the scheduling performance, the DTF
algorithm has been designed. Experimental results show that
our proposed scheduling algorithm can achieve a good trade-
off between runtime and schedulability. Different from tra-
ditional DRL resource scheduling algorithms, our DTF can
better learn the relationship between time intervals and link
capacity utilization. For the future work, we will investigate
mixed-flow transmission in CQF-based TSN-5GS.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant
2022YFB2901302, in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 62201029, in part by
the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation under Grants
2022M710007 and BX20220029.
REFERENCES
[1] “IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks – Bridges
and Bridged Networks - Amendment 25: Enhancements for Scheduled
Traffic,” IEEE Std 802.1Qbv-2015, pp. 1–57, Mar. 2016.
[2] “IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks – Bridges
and Bridged Networks – Amendment 29: Cyclic Queuing and Forward-
ing,” IEEE Std. 802.1Qch-2017, pp. 1–30, June 2017.
[3] D. Yang, Z. Cheng, W. Zhang, H. Zhang, and X. Shen, “Burst-Aware
Time-Triggered Flow Scheduling With Enhanced Multi-CQF in Time-
Sensitive Networks,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Networking, pp. 1–16, Apr.
2023.
[4] 3GPP, “TS 23.501 V16.7.0 System Architecture for the 5G System,”
Dec. 2020.
[5] D. Ginth¨or, R. Guillaume, M. Sch¨ungel, and H. D. Schotten, “Robust
End-to-End Schedules for Wireless Time-Sensitive Networks under
Correlated Large-scale Fading,” in Proc. IEEE WFCS, June 2021, pp.
115–122.
[6] J. Prados-Garzon, T. Taleb, and M. Bagaa, “LEARNET: Reinforcement
Learning Based Flow Scheduling for Asynchronous Deterministic Net-
works,” in Proc. IEEE ICC, June 2020, pp. 1–6.
[7] Y. Kang, S. Lee, S. Gwak, T. Kim, and D. An, “Time-sensitive Network-
ing Technologies for Industrial Automation in Wireless Communication
Systems,” Energies, vol. 14, no. 15, p. 4497, July 2021.
[8] M. Series, “Guidelines for Evaluation of Radio Interface Technologies
for IMT-2020,” Report ITU, pp. 2412–0, Oct. 2017.
[9] Industrial Internet Consortium, “Time Sensitive Networks for Flexible
Manufacturing Testbed Characterization and Mapping of Converged
Traffic Types,” Mar. 2019.
[10] Z. Cheng, D. Yang, W. Zhang, J. Ren, H. Wang, and H. Zhang,
“DeepCQF: Making CQF Scheduling More Intelligent and Practicable,”
in Proc. IEEE ICC, May 2022, pp. 1–6.
[11] J. Yan, W. Quan, X. Jiang, and Z. Sun, “Injection Time Planning:
Making CQF Practical in Time-Sensitive Networking,” in Proc. IEEE
INFOCOM, July 2020, pp. 616–625.
65
Authorized licensed use limited to: Beijing Jiaotong University. Downloaded on September 02,2024 at 07:24:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
